#eJPT #INE #Windows #PrivEsc


| COMMAND                         | FUNCTION                        |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| *getpriv*                       | Show priviledge of current user |
| *getuid*                        | Show username                   |
| *net users*                     | show user accounts              |
| *net localgroup administrators* | show users in admin group       |

# Windows Kernel

*A Kernel is a computer program that is the core of an operating system and has complete control over every resource and hardware on a system. It acts as a translation layer between hardware and software and facilitates the communication between these two layers.*

**Windows NT is the kernel** that comes pre-packaged with all versions of Microsoft Windows

Two main modes of operation that determine access to system resources and hardware:
- **User Mode** – Programs and services running in user mode have limited access to system resources and functionality.
- **Kernel Mode** – Kernel mode has unrestricted access to system resources and functionality with the added functionality of managing devices and system memory.

#### (TOOL) Windows-Exploit-Suggester 
- This tool compares a targets patch levels against the Microsoft vulnerability database in order to detect potential missing patches on the target. It also notifies the user if there are public exploits and Metasploit modules available for the missing bulletins.
+ GitHub: https://github.com/AonCyberLabs/Windows-Exploit-Suggester

#### Finding correct exploits with metasploit
1. Get a meterpreter session on target 
2. run `post/muti/recon/local_exploit_suggester`

---
# User Account Control (UAC)

*User Account Control (UAC) is a Windows security feature introduced in Windows Vista that is used to prevent unauthorized changes from being made to the operating system.*

A **non-privileged user attempting to execute a program with elevated privileges will be prompted with the UAC credential prompt**, whereas a **privileged user will be prompted with a consent prompt**
## Bypassing UAC

*In order to successfully bypass UAC, we will need to have access to a user account that is a part of the local administrators group on the Windows target system.*
#### (TOOL) UACMe 
- It is an open source, robust privilege escalation tool developed by @hfire0x. It can be used to bypass Windows UAC by leveraging various techniques.
- GitHub: https://github.com/hfiref0x/UACME

#### Using UACMe

1. Get a meterpreter session.
2. Upload reverse shell payload and Akagi32.exe
3. Call back to you using Metasploit multi/handler listener and executing akagi32.exe
4. Migrate to NT/authority system process

---
# Windows Access Token 

*Windows access tokens are a core element of the authentication process on Windows and are created and managed by the Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS).*

**Access tokens are generated by the winlogon.exe process** every time a user authenticates successfully and includes the identity and privileges of the user account associated with the thread or process

This token is **then attached to the userinit.exe process**, after which all child processes started by a user will inherit a copy of the access token from their creator and will run under the privileges of the same access token.

## Types of tokens

An access token will typically be assigned one of the following security levels: 
- **Impersonate-level tokens** are created as a direct result of a non-interactive login on Windows, typically through specific system services or domain logons.
- **Delegate-level tokens** are typically created through an interactive login on Windows, primarily through a traditional login or through remote access protocols such as RDP.
*Delegate-level tokens pose the largest threat*

The following are the privileges that are required for a successful impersonation attack:
- **SeAssignPrimaryToken**: This allows a user to impersonate tokens.
- **SeCreateToken**: This allows a user to create an arbitrary token with administrative privileges.
- **SeImpersonatePrivilege**: This allows a user to create a process under the security context of another user typically with administrative privileges.

#### Access Token Impersonation

1. Get a meterpreter session exploiting vulnerable service ( `use exploit/windows/http/rejetto_hfs_exec`)
2. `load incognito`
3. `list_tokens -u`
4. `impersonate_token "TOKEN_NAME"`

---

# Alternate Data Streams (ADS)

*ADS is an NTFS (New Technology File System) file attribute and was designed to provide compatibility with the MacOS HFS (Hierarchical File System).*

● **Any file created on an NTFS formatted drive** will have two different forks/streams:
- ***Data stream*** - Default stream that contains the data of the file.
- ***Resource stream*** - Typically contains the metadata of the file.

● Attackers can *use ADS to hide malicious code or executables* in legitimate files in order to evade detection.
● This can be done by **storing the malicious code or executables in the file attribute resource stream (metadata)** of a legitimate file.
● This technique is **usually used to evade basic signature based AVs and static scanning tools.**

#### Using ADS

```bash
notepad text.txt:secret.txt
```
